README.md, before:

# TCP Acceleration Service

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/tcp-acceleration-service/tas.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/tcp-acceleration-service/tas)

TAS is a drop-in highly CPU efficient and scalable TCP acceleration service.

Our [EuroSys2019 Paper](https://dl.acm.org/authorize?N678517) describes the TAS
design and its rationale.

## Building
Requirements:
  * TAS is built on top of Intel DPDK for direct access to the NIC. We have
    tested this version with dpdk-17.11.4

Assuming that dpdk is installed in `~/dpdk-inst` TAS can be built as follows:
```
make RTE_SDK=~/dpdk-inst
```

This will build the TAS service (binary `tas/tas`), client libraries (in
`lib/`), and a few debugging tools (in `tools/`).

## Running

Before running TAS the following steps are necessary:
   * Make sure `hugetlbfs` is mounted on `/mnt/huge` and enough huge pages are
     allocated for TAS and dpdk.
   * Binding the NIC to the dpdk driver, as with any other dpdk application (for
     Intel NICs use `vfio` because `uio` does not support multiple interrupts).

```
sudo modprobe vfio-pci
sudo mount -t hugetlbfs nodev /mnt/huge
echo 1024 | sudo tee /sys/devices/system/node/node*/hugepages/hugepages-2048kB/nr_hugepages
sudo ~/dpdk-inst/sbin/dpdk-devbind  -b vfio-pci 0000:08:00.0
```

To run (`--ip-addr` and `--fp-cores-max` are the minimum arguments typically
needed to run tas, for more see `--help`):
```
sudo code/tas/tas --ip-addr=10.0.0.1/24 --fp-cores-max=2
```

Once tas is running, applications that directly link to `libtas` or
`libtas_sockets` can be run directly. To run an unmodified application with
sockets interposition run as follows (for example):
```
sudo LD_PRELOAD=lib/libtas_interpose.so ../benchmarks/micro_rpc/echoserver_linux 1234 1 foo 8192 1
```

### In Qemu/KVM

For functional testing and development TAS can run in Qemu (with or without
acceleration through KVM). We have tested this with the `virtio` dpdk driver.
By default, the qemu virtio device only provides a single queue, and thus only
allows TAS to run on a single core. To run a virtual machine with support for
multiple queue, qemu requires a tap device with multi-queue support enabled.

Here is an example sequence of commands to create a tap device with multi queue
support and then start a qemu instance that binds this tap device to a
multi-queue virtio device:

```
sudo ip link add tastap0 type tuntap
sudo ip tuntap add mode tap multi_queue name tastap0
sudo ip link set dev tastap0 up
qemu-system-x86_64 \
    -machine q35 -cpu host \
    -drive file=vm1.qcow2,if=virtio \
    -netdev tap,ifname=tastap0,script=no,downscript=no,vhost=on,queues=8,id=nInt\
    -device virtio-net-pci,mac=52:54:00:12:34:56,vectors=18,mq=on,netdev=nInt \
    -serial mon:stdio -m 8192 -smp 16 -display none -enable-kvm

```

Inside the virtual machine, the following sequence of commands first takes the
linux network interface down, binds it to the `uio_pci_generic` driver that
the dpdk virtio PMD supports, and then reserves huge pages:
```
sudo ifconfig enp0s2 down
sudo modprobe uio
sudo modprobe uio_pci_generic
sudo dpdk-devbind.py -b uio_pci_generic 0000:00:02.0
echo 1024 | sudo tee /sys/devices/system/node/node*/hugepages/hugepages-2048kB/nr_hugepages
```

Virtio does not support all the NIC features that we depend on in physical NICs.
In particular virtio does not support transmit checksum offload or the RSS
redirection table TAS uses for scaling up and down. The dpdk virtio PMD also
does not support multiple MSI-X interrupts.  To run TAS given these constraints,
the following command line parameters disable the use of these features (note
that this implies busy polling and no autoscaling):

```
sudo code/tas/tas --ip-addr=10.0.0.1/24 --fp-cores-max=8 \
    --fp-no-xsumoffload --fp-no-ints --fp-no-autoscale
```

### Kernel NIC Interface

TAS supports the DPDK kernel NIC interface (KNI) to pass packets to the Linux
kernel network stack. With KNI enabled, TAS becomes an opt-in fastpath where
TAS-enabled applications operate through TAS, and other applications can use the
Linux network stack as before, sharing the same physical NIC.

To run TAS with KNI the first step is to load the `rte_kni` kernel module. Next,
when run with the `--kni-name=` option, TAS will create a KNI dummy network
interface with the specified name. After assigning an IP address to this
network interface, the Linux network stack can send and receive packets through
this interface as long as TAS is running. Here is the complete sequence of
commands:

```
sudo modprobe rte_kni
sudo code/tas/tas --ip-addr=10.0.0.1/24 --kni-name=tas0
# in separate terminal
sudo ifconfig tas0 10.0.0.1/24 up
```


## Code Structure
  * `tas/`: service implementation
    * `tas/fast`: TAS fast path
    * `tas/slow`: TAS slow path
  * `lib/`: client libraries
    * `lib/tas`: lowlevel TAS client library (interface:
      `lib/tas/include/tas_ll.h`)
    * `lib/sockets`: socket emulation layer
  * `tools/`: debugging tools

Commit message:

add test section in readme

README.md, after:

# TCP Acceleration Service

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/tcp-acceleration-service/tas.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/tcp-acceleration-service/tas)

TAS is a drop-in highly CPU efficient and scalable TCP acceleration service.

Our [EuroSys2019 Paper](https://dl.acm.org/authorize?N678517) describes the TAS
design and its rationale.

## Building
Requirements:
  * TAS is built on top of Intel DPDK for direct access to the NIC. We have
    tested this version with dpdk-17.11.4

Assuming that dpdk is installed in `~/dpdk-inst` TAS can be built as follows:
```
make RTE_SDK=~/dpdk-inst
```

This will build the TAS service (binary `tas/tas`), client libraries (in
`lib/`), and a few debugging tools (in `tools/`).

## Running

Before running TAS the following steps are necessary:
   * Make sure `hugetlbfs` is mounted on `/mnt/huge` and enough huge pages are
     allocated for TAS and dpdk.
   * Binding the NIC to the dpdk driver, as with any other dpdk application (for
     Intel NICs use `vfio` because `uio` does not support multiple interrupts).

```
sudo modprobe vfio-pci
sudo mount -t hugetlbfs nodev /mnt/huge
echo 1024 | sudo tee /sys/devices/system/node/node*/hugepages/hugepages-2048kB/nr_hugepages
sudo ~/dpdk-inst/sbin/dpdk-devbind  -b vfio-pci 0000:08:00.0
```

To run (`--ip-addr` and `--fp-cores-max` are the minimum arguments typically
needed to run tas, for more see `--help`):
```
sudo code/tas/tas --ip-addr=10.0.0.1/24 --fp-cores-max=2
```

Once tas is running, applications that directly link to `libtas` or
`libtas_sockets` can be run directly. To run an unmodified application with
sockets interposition run as follows (for example):
```
sudo LD_PRELOAD=lib/libtas_interpose.so ../benchmarks/micro_rpc/echoserver_linux 1234 1 foo 8192 1
```

## RDMA Testing

First, run `make tests` to compile testing programs. When tas runs in two machine, we can run test for RDMA_PingPong, RDMA_Write, and RDMA_Read. 
### RDMA Ping Pong
In the server machine, we run this comand to start listening to ping from the client.
```
sudo tests/rdma_server_pong 10.0.0.1 10000 1
```
Then, in the client side, we execute this command to ping the server using RDMA Read and RDMA Write iteratively.
```
sudo tests/rdma_client_ping 10.0.0.1 10000 1 4 5
```
### RDMA Write:
In the server machine, we run this command to start RDMA server.
```
sudo tests/rdma_multi_server 10.0.0.1 10000 1
```
As for the client machine, we can run this command to test RDMA Write.
```
sudo tests/rdma_multi_client_write 10.0.0.1 10000 1 4 5
```
### RDMA Read:
We can use the same method as RDMA Write to initiate the server. For the client machine, we can run this command to test RDMA Read.
```
sudo tests/rdma_multi_client_read 10.0.0.1 10000 1 4 5
```

### In Qemu/KVM

For functional testing and development TAS can run in Qemu (with or without
acceleration through KVM). We have tested this with the `virtio` dpdk driver.
By default, the qemu virtio device only provides a single queue, and thus only
allows TAS to run on a single core. To run a virtual machine with support for
multiple queue, qemu requires a tap device with multi-queue support enabled.

Here is an example sequence of commands to create a tap device with multi queue
support and then start a qemu instance that binds this tap device to a
multi-queue virtio device:

```
sudo ip link add tastap0 type tuntap
sudo ip tuntap add mode tap multi_queue name tastap0
sudo ip link set dev tastap0 up
qemu-system-x86_64 \
    -machine q35 -cpu host \
    -drive file=vm1.qcow2,if=virtio \
    -netdev tap,ifname=tastap0,script=no,downscript=no,vhost=on,queues=8,id=nInt\
    -device virtio-net-pci,mac=52:54:00:12:34:56,vectors=18,mq=on,netdev=nInt \
    -serial mon:stdio -m 8192 -smp 16 -display none -enable-kvm

```

Inside the virtual machine, the following sequence of commands first takes the
linux network interface down, binds it to the `uio_pci_generic` driver that
the dpdk virtio PMD supports, and then reserves huge pages:
```
sudo ifconfig enp0s2 down
sudo modprobe uio
sudo modprobe uio_pci_generic
sudo dpdk-devbind.py -b uio_pci_generic 0000:00:02.0
echo 1024 | sudo tee /sys/devices/system/node/node*/hugepages/hugepages-2048kB/nr_hugepages
```

Virtio does not support all the NIC features that we depend on in physical NICs.
In particular virtio does not support transmit checksum offload or the RSS
redirection table TAS uses for scaling up and down. The dpdk virtio PMD also
does not support multiple MSI-X interrupts.  To run TAS given these constraints,
the following command line parameters disable the use of these features (note
that this implies busy polling and no autoscaling):

```
sudo code/tas/tas --ip-addr=10.0.0.1/24 --fp-cores-max=8 \
    --fp-no-xsumoffload --fp-no-ints --fp-no-autoscale
```

### Kernel NIC Interface

TAS supports the DPDK kernel NIC interface (KNI) to pass packets to the Linux
kernel network stack. With KNI enabled, TAS becomes an opt-in fastpath where
TAS-enabled applications operate through TAS, and other applications can use the
Linux network stack as before, sharing the same physical NIC.

To run TAS with KNI the first step is to load the `rte_kni` kernel module. Next,
when run with the `--kni-name=` option, TAS will create a KNI dummy network
interface with the specified name. After assigning an IP address to this
network interface, the Linux network stack can send and receive packets through
this interface as long as TAS is running. Here is the complete sequence of
commands:

```
sudo modprobe rte_kni
sudo code/tas/tas --ip-addr=10.0.0.1/24 --kni-name=tas0
# in separate terminal
sudo ifconfig tas0 10.0.0.1/24 up
```


## Code Structure
  * `tas/`: service implementation
    * `tas/fast`: TAS fast path
    * `tas/slow`: TAS slow path
  * `lib/`: client libraries
    * `lib/tas`: lowlevel TAS client library (interface:
      `lib/tas/include/tas_ll.h`)
    * `lib/sockets`: socket emulation layer
  * `tools/`: debugging tools
